- [Instructor] IT Managers at H Plus Org want
to make the application more dynamic
and so we've been requested
to prepare our Tomcat installation to connect
with a MySQL database.
In order to access the different database systems
with web applications deployed on Apache Tomcat,
you first must add them to the Apache Tomcat lib directory.
So, let's first go download the correct driver.
If you navigate in your browsers
to dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/,
scroll down to the connector 8.0.15,
select the Platform Independent,
go to the zip download, and click download.
If you have not created an Oracle account yet,
you must do this and log in, in order to download the file.
Next, let's just open this file up.
We'll use the automatic unzip capabilities here of our Mac.
Go to our terminal window, we're going to copy
from the downloads folder the MySQL driver,
to the lib directory.
Forgive me, I made a mistake.
We need to copy not cd from the downloads MySQL directory
to our lib directory.
Do an ls on the lib,
see that it's there.
There is a MySQL connector.
Next, with the jar copied, we need to modify our context.xml
to use this connection.
So, we'll type
vi
conf
context.xml.
And I want to quickly turn your attention
to the Tomcat website.
They have a great example here for MySQL,
and it's this information here.
What we're going to do is just copy this resource name,
going to come over to our context again,
bring our cursor down to about there, hit enter,
and paste this information in.
We'll change the resource name.
This will be our jndi name for our H Plus database.
We'll change the java user, if you remember this is
from our very first video where we set up the database,
this will be our H Plus user.
Our password,
enter here, bring this over one more time.
Going to add a validation query.
This query is ran when the Tomcat server starts up.
It validates the database is connected.
And we're going to change the database name here.
Those changes done, we'll hit escape colon write
enter colon q to close it.
Then next, we need to stop
and start our Tomcat instance.
Now, once you've restarted,
you would typically deploy your app
with the appropriate db connection details
that rely on your jndi settings
made in the resource tag of your context.xml,
which we've just done.
And you would reference these in your web.xml.
Now, we do this by opening in our project,
I've already opened this for us,
this is in our chapter one 01_05_begin folder,
and I've already made the changes
for you inside the web.xml.
I have a description tag.
I have a resource ref tag, and inside that we have our name,
which references what we just changed in our context.xml
for the jndi connection.